README.md, before:

# Sensor Fusion: Using LIDAR for Object Detection
Ken Power, December 2020

The goal of this project is to use Lidar to detect traffic, including cars and trucks, and other obstacles (e.g., poles, traffic signs) on a narrow street. The detection pipeline implements filtering, segmentation, clustering, and bounding boxes. Also the segmentation and clustering methods are created from scratch, rather than using PCL's built-in functions. The code places bounding boxes around all obstacles on the road.

The finished result is shown in the animated GIF below, with a reference image on the left and my implementation on the right. 

Reference Implementation | My Implementation
--- | ---
![](media/ObstacleDetectionFPS.gif) | ![](media/Final_DataSet1_FrontView.gif)


Looking at the output from another angle:

![](media/Final_DataSet1_TopDiagonalView.gif)


# Running the program
Building the project creates an executable call `environment`. This can be run from a shell, and generates the following output:
```
$ ./environment 
Starting environment for PCD dataset 'data_1'
Using custom implementation of RANSAC 3D algorithm for segmentation
Using custom implementation of Euclidean Clustering algorithm along with custom KD-Tree
Hyperparameter Summery: {Max. Iterations = 100}, {Distance Tolerance = 0.2}, {Min. Cluster Size = 18}, {Max. Cluster Size = 550}
```
These are the hyperparamter values that I arrived at after experimenting with different values:
* Max. Iterations = 100
* Distance Tolerance = 0.2
* Min. Cluster Size = 18
* Max. Cluster Size = 550

There are two flags in the `environment.cpp` file that can be used to specify whether the code uses the custom implementaitons of RANSAC and Euclidean Clustering with KD-Tree, or the PCL versions.

```c++
static const bool USE_CUSTOM_RANSAC = true;
static const bool USE_CUSTOM_EUCLIDEAN_CLUSTERING = true;
```

Set these to `true` to use the custom versions, and `false` to use the PCL versions. They are set to `true` by default.

# Project Files

## Source files

* `environment.cpp`: This is the entry point, and contains the `main()` function. This is also the place where the hyperparameters are defined.
* `process_point_clouds.h, process_point_clouds.cpp`: Class that encapsulates PCL library Functions for processing point clouds. The function `ProcessPointClouds<PointT>::SegmentPlaneCustomRansac3D()` contains a custom implementation of the RANSAC algorithm for segmentation. 
* `kd_tree.h`: A custom implementation of a KD-Tree. The function `ProcessPointClouds<PointT>::EuclideanClustering()` uses the custom KDTree to implement Euclidean Clustering. 
* `render/box.h`: Structures for creating bounding boxes.
* `render/render.h, render.cpp`: Code that uses the PCL library to render point clouds and bounding boxes.

## Build files

* `CMakeLists.txt`: A [CMake file](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/tutorial/index.html) containing the set of directives and instructions describing the project's source files and targets (executable, in this case). This creates a `make` file.

## Point Cloud Data files

The [data/sensors/pcd folder](./data/sensors/pcd) contains a set of Point Cloud data files.

## Media files

The [media folder](./media) contains examples of output files, including the GIFs, recorded from running this project.

Commit message:

Adding project specification and status description

README.md, after:

# Sensor Fusion: Using LIDAR for Object Detection
Ken Power, December 2020

# Project Goal

The goal of this project is to use Lidar to detect traffic, including cars and trucks, and other obstacles (e.g., poles, traffic signs) on a narrow street. The detection pipeline implements filtering, segmentation, clustering, and bounding boxes. Also the segmentation and clustering methods are created from scratch, rather than using PCL's built-in functions. The code places bounding boxes around all obstacles on the road.

The finished result is shown in the animated GIF below, with a reference image on the left and my implementation on the right. 

Reference Implementation | My Implementation
--- | ---
![](media/ObstacleDetectionFPS.gif) | ![](media/Final_DataSet1_FrontView.gif)


Looking at the output from another angle:

![](media/Final_DataSet1_TopDiagonalView.gif)

# Project Specification

CRITERIA | SPECIFICATIONS | STATUS
--- | --- | ---
Bounding boxes enclose appropriate objects. | Bounding boxes enclose vehicles, and the pole on the right side of the vehicle. There is one box per detected object. | Done
Objects are consistently detected across frames in the video. | Most bounding boxes can be followed through the lidar stream, and major objects don't lose or gain bounding boxes in the middle of the lidar stream. | Done
Segmentation is implemented in the project. | The code used for segmentation uses custom 3D RANSAC algorithm developed from scratch. | Done
Clustering is implemented in the project. | The code used for clustering uses the Euclidean clustering algorithm along with the KD-Tree developed from scratch. | Done


# Running the program
Building the project creates an executable call `environment`. This can be run from a shell, and generates the following output:
```
$ ./environment 
Starting environment for PCD dataset 'data_1'
Using custom implementation of RANSAC 3D algorithm for segmentation
Using custom implementation of Euclidean Clustering algorithm along with custom KD-Tree
Hyperparameter Summery: {Max. Iterations = 100}, {Distance Tolerance = 0.2}, {Min. Cluster Size = 18}, {Max. Cluster Size = 550}
```
These are the hyperparamter values that I arrived at after experimenting with different values:
* Max. Iterations = 100
* Distance Tolerance = 0.2
* Min. Cluster Size = 18
* Max. Cluster Size = 550

There are two flags in the `environment.cpp` file that can be used to specify whether the code uses the custom implementaitons of RANSAC and Euclidean Clustering with KD-Tree, or the PCL versions.

```c++
static const bool USE_CUSTOM_RANSAC = true;
static const bool USE_CUSTOM_EUCLIDEAN_CLUSTERING = true;
```

Set these to `true` to use the custom versions, and `false` to use the PCL versions. They are set to `true` by default.

# Project Files

## Source files

* `environment.cpp`: This is the entry point, and contains the `main()` function. This is also the place where the hyperparameters are defined.
* `process_point_clouds.h, process_point_clouds.cpp`: Class that encapsulates PCL library Functions for processing point clouds. The function `ProcessPointClouds<PointT>::SegmentPlaneCustomRansac3D()` contains a custom implementation of the RANSAC algorithm for segmentation. 
* `kd_tree.h`: A custom implementation of a KD-Tree. The function `ProcessPointClouds<PointT>::EuclideanClustering()` uses the custom KDTree to implement Euclidean Clustering. 
* `render/box.h`: Structures for creating bounding boxes.
* `render/render.h, render.cpp`: Code that uses the PCL library to render point clouds and bounding boxes.

## Build files

* `CMakeLists.txt`: A [CMake file](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/tutorial/index.html) containing the set of directives and instructions describing the project's source files and targets (executable, in this case). This creates a `make` file.

## Point Cloud Data files

The [data/sensors/pcd folder](./data/sensors/pcd) contains a set of Point Cloud data files.

## Media files

The [media folder](./media) contains examples of output files, including the GIFs, recorded from running this project.
